Hosts - any device which sends or receives traffic.
A computer, laptop, phone, printer, or cloud server can be a host.
Even TVs, speakers, and thermostats can be hosts.
As long as they send or receive traffic.

There are two categories of hosts.
Clients - they initiate requests
Servers - they respond to requests

A client server relationship can be a computer (client) going on a website (server).
The website could then need to be updated from its database that it gets its information
from, so then it would be a client to the database (server).


A server is simply a computer with software installed which
responds to specific requests.


---------

Each host has an ip address. Each host must have one if it wants
to communicate on the internet. Just like how people need phone
numbers to talk to each other.

When a client is requesting something from a server, it stamps
its one ip address and also the ip address of the server. This is
the src and dst (source and destination).

Everything sent on the internet is going to have this src and dst
information.

IP address are made of 32 bits. This is a combo of 32 ones and zeros. Then,
we take the 32 bits and convert it to 4 octets. Then, we take those octets
and convert those to decimals. This is how we make IP addresses, like:

136.22.17.98      Highest number we can make in a section in 255.

ACME corp. could own all IPs that start with 10.x.x.x. New York locations
could be 10.20.x.x, and London locations could be 10.30.x.x. Sales could
be 10.20.55.x, and engineering could be 10.20.66.x. There are categories
of IPs that give information about who could be hosting and where they could
be hosting.


-----

Anytime you connect two hosts, you have a network.
Before we had networks, you had to use USBs or discs to transfer
things PHYSICALLY between computers.

A network is what transports traffic between hosts.

Networks are groupings of hosts which require similar connectivity.
This is like however many devices you have at home at are all under
the same wifi. That is one network. Another network would be the wifi
at a coffee shop that has many hosts connecting to it. A school could
had multiple networks inside it, representing each classroom.

All these networks can interact with each other(working from home on
your wifi to reach your company work, or working from a coffee shop
to log in to school documents) through the internet. Internet is
literally a space where many networks interact with each other.


-----PART 2-----

Remember that a network is a line between two hosts that allows traffic.
Data as it crosses the network on its way to the other host decays as it
travels. So the longer distance the network, it could decay more.

You could lose a network if you are trying to connect two computers in
opposite buildings. A way to fix this is by putting a repeater between them.

A repeater regenerates signals. Anything that comes through one end simply
gets regenerated out the other end.

So far, we've been talking about connecting two hosts together. What if we
have a third or fourth host to connect? Connecting all of them individually to
each other isn't as effective as just having one thing in the center to connect
everything to. This is where hubs, bridges, and switchs come into play.

------

A hub is nothing more than a multi-port repeater. So, if computer 1 wants to
communicate with computer 2, it could send a signal which goes through the hub,
and to computer 2. However, if other hosts are connected to the hub, they get the
signal too, since a hub is a multi-port repeater, and would just regenerate the
signal to all the ports.

----

A bridge sits between hub-connected hosts. Bridges only have two ports,
to connect each hub. People on one side of the bridge can communicate
without the other side knowing. Bridges know which hosts are on which 
side of the bridge, so if two hosts need to communicate, the bridge
only sends signals to where necessary.


---

A switch is a combo of a hub and bridge. They are like hubs because hosts
can connect to them through its ports. They are like bridges because
they can learn which hosts are on each port. The switch is the best
because if two hosts need to communicate, it knows to only send and
receive information between those two hosts only. Not like a repeater
that would send the package across all of its ports.

Switches facilitate communication within a network.

--

**Networks share the same IP address space depending on the category,
as shown above in the network section.

----

So we learned that switches facillitate communication between hosts
within a certain network. There can be mulitple networks within a space,
just like the classroom analogy. What if a host in the biology classroom
wants to talk to another host in the computer science classroom, but they
are a part of two different networks? This is where the router kicks in.

Routers facilitate communication between networks. Ultimately, we will
need the router to connect your network to the network of networks, the
internet.

Routers are a good place to enforce security policies, due to them being
the boundary between networks. If biology computer did wanna communicate
with computer science computer, it would have to go through the router,
and the router could redirect, filter, and make sure things are secure.

Just like a bridge knows which hosts are on what sides of it, a router
knows what networks are on either side, as well as knowing where the
internet is. These paths to these networks are called routes, which 
are stored in a routing table.

A gateway is each host's way out of their local network. So if biology
wants to talk with CS, it would have to go through the default gateway
that the router has stored in order to have its package travel through
to CS.

So basically, communicating with things far away is at max facilitated by
communication through routers.

---

So let's take a bird's eye view of switching and routing. These are the two
main performing operations.
Routing is the process of moving data between networks.
Switching is the process of moving data within networks.

<!--On to the third video!!!-->