We will explain how hosts communicate through two scenarios:

1. Hosts connected directly to each other.
  Basically two hosts in the SAME network
2. Hosts connected to each other through a router.
  Basically host talking to host in a foriegn network.

-----Situation 1-----
So Host A and B are directly connected. Both of them have
a NIC, and therefore a MAC address.
Both hosts have a IP and subnet mask (a subnetmask identifies
the size of the IP network.)

Host A has data to send to B. Host A knows the IP address
of B. And Host A knows B is in its network.
  The user could have typed: ping 'some ip address'
  Or it was acquired through DNS (conversion of domain name
  to IP).

Host A will create a layer 3 packet, then add a layer 2 thing
to it. The problem is host A doesn't know B's MAC address. How
do we get around this?

Host A will use ARP, which links a layer 3 address to a particular
layer 2 address. The ARP pretty much says: 

"If anyone out there has the IP 'blank blank', send me your MAC.
My IP is __ and my MAC is __. "

This ARP is a broadcast, so it's sent to everyone on the network. The
dest MAC address on a ARP request is ffff.ffff.ffff, which is meant
for everyone on the network.

There are things called ARP caches. Each host has one, and they include
a storage of all the IP and MAC pairings of other hosts. Once the ARP 
request reaches B and Host A and B communicate, both A and B's ARP
cache will be populated with each other's IP and MAC pair.

Once the ARP request is done, Host A can now finish up the dest MAC
that was required initially to send the data.

<Video 6: covering situation 2>

---Situation 2---

Now, a router (or foriegn network), is between two hosts, Host A and Host C.
The hosts and router all have IPs and MACs.

Host A knows Host C's IP address, this is because the user typed it in or its in the data to be sent.
Host A knows that C is in a foreign network too because it looks if its IP address or subnet is vastly
different from C's.

Host A creates a layer 3 header. It needs to create a layer 2 but can't (just like last scenario)
because it doesn't have the router's MAC address. However, A knows the routers IP address because
this information is in the default gateway. We talked about this before.

Host A will shoot out an ARP request to the router to get the MAC address. Then it can complete the package
sending to the router. As far as we are concerned, Host A knows that it did all it could do to get its package
off to Host C, it'll trust the router. So basically with anyone that Host A tries to communicate with, it only
needs the router that it's connected to's MAC, which it already found out. This goes in the ARP cache.


---Recap---
So basically, if Host A's target host is:

Local:  Sends an ARP to resolve target IP
Foriegn: Sends an ARP to resolve Default Gateway IP (router)

<Video 7: now, create a new file.>